# Employee-Attrition
Job lifestyle or job satisfaction plays a crucial role in today`s day to day life. Hence, the key objective of this project is to study employee attrition within the company and identify the major patterns, trends, and root causes. This investigation will offer actionable insights for enhancing organizational performance, optimizing human resource planning, and solidifying strategies for employee retention. By acting on the root causes of employee attrition identified in this study, the company can significantly enhance workforce stability and make a flexible work life balance schedule which will help employees to sustain and not to leave the company. 
## Motivation
In today`s world, employee attrition is a major problem for organizations because it can lead to increased hiring costs, loss of institutional knowledge, and stressed team relationships. The development of effective measures to retain employees and the culture of the workplace depends on knowledge of the features that influence quitting behavior. 
The need to extract meaningful insights from data in order to address these issues, improve employee happiness, and match labor expectations with company goals. This study aims to equip the decision-makers with the ability to proactively reduce attrition and build a more resilient and engaged workforce through the use of predictive modeling and advanced data analytics.
__Dataset:__  ___https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset___

__Overview:__ The data set has 35 features which will help to understand why employee are more bound to leave. This enforces to implement the actionable changes in the companies lifestyle which eventually makes the employee statisfied and will significantly reduce the leaving rates of the employee.
